{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww12000\viewh14520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Braille Writing Tutor User Guide--August 2013\
This document contains a brief description of the main menu and each mode of the Braille Writing Tutor, followed by any related instructions.\
Starting the tutor: To start the tutor, make sure it is plugged into the USB port, and then find the BT program in the windows start menu. This should launch the tutor, and you should hear it say "starting braille tutor." In the event that the computer cannot find the tutor, it will play a sound, and you should exit the program and un-plug and then re-plug the tutor in the USB port. If the computer does find the tutor, it will start giving instructions on how to use the main menu. \
Main Menu: The main menu allows you to scroll through the options for modes. You move between options using buttons 1 and 4 as "forward" and "back" buttons, and press the select button when you hear the mode that you would like to enter. To re-enter the main menu from any activity, hold down the select button, and push dot 1 before releasing. \
Learn Dots: This mode teaches students the numberings of the dots on the Braille Writing Tutor. It will ask them to find different dots and will tell them when they have pushed the correct dot. \
Dot Practice: This mode asks students to enter various patterns of dots. It will say which dot was pressed after a dot is pressed. There is no need to push the select button when a pattern is done, the tutor will know that it is done. \
Learn Letters: This mode teaches English letters. It first instructs the students which dots to push for certain letters, and then will quiz the students on the letters they have learned.\
Letter Practice: This mode will ask students to enter simple combinations of letters. After each letter has been entered, the students should push the select button. \
Animal Game: This game quizzes students on different animal sounds. It will play an animal sound and ask the student to spell out the name of that animal. At any time, if you hold dot 3 down and then press "select" before releasing, it will spell out and say the name of the animal. After this, you will need to start writing the animal name from the beginning. To spell out an animal, press the proper dot patterns for each letter, and then hit the select button.\
Everyday Noises Game: This game quizzes students on different sounds they might hear during their daily lives.  It will play a sound and ask the student to spell out the name of the object that makes that sound. At any time, if you hold dot 3 down and then press "select" before releasing, it will spell out and say the name of the object. After this, you will need to start writing the object's name from the beginning. To spell out an animal, press the proper dot patterns for each letter, and then hit the select button.\
Learn Numbers: This mode is like learn letters, except it teaches Braille number codes. It does not require students to enter the numerical sign first. \
Arithmetic Practice: This mode quizzes students on addition, subtraction, and multiplication problems. It will ask you to choose your mode for the type of problems you would like, and then it will ask you to choose your level of difficulty. The easiest level will typically have 1 digit answers, the medium level will typically have 2 digit answers, and the highest level of difficulty will typically have 3 digit answers. Once a question is asked, the student is expected to first enter in the numerical sign (dots 3,4,5,6), and then each digit one by one. The tutor will say the name of the dot that was just pressed, and will know when a full number has been entered--there is no need to push select to enter an answer. The tutor will give feedback when a digit has been correctly entered. At any point, a student can press the select button to repeat a question. \
Learn Letters Kannada: This mode is nearly identical to the English Learn Letters except it teaches Kannada Braille. This mode also serves to teach Hindi Braille as it is the same as Kannada Braille, but Kannada Braille has 3 additional characters. The only difference in using this mode is that there is one multi-cell character. The tutor will say "multicell character" and then give the patterns for both cells. The user then will have to enter in the first cell, and then the second cell patterns. The tutor will give audio feedback when a cell has been entered correctly. \
Hangman: The purpose of this game is to guess the mystery word by guessing which letters the dashes are supposed to be. It will say that the word is "dash dash dash dash", and then ask you to guess a letter. Enter a letter in which you think the word contains, and press select. If the letter is in the mystery word, it will fill in the dashes that were supposed to be that letter. For example, if you guessed "T" and the word was "NOTE," then it would now say the word is "dash dash T dash." If you guess a letter that is not in the word, it will tell you that you have made a mistake. The goal of the game is to guess the mystery word with as few mistakes as possible. \
\
}